Configuring the scrolling behavior in a vuejs or in an app using the vue router is really
simple.
We go to the main.js file where we set up the router and there, we can pass another property, the scroll
behavior property, that actually is a method to be precise
and here, we can configure how we want it to behave.
This method has three arguments,
to, from and the save position in case we were using the back button and the user scroll down a bit,
the browser automatically saves the position and we can use the position here too.
Now this function expects to get back either an object where we have a X and Y coordinate where we then
specify where to go, for example X, 0 and Y, 0 and a selector so the tag we had before,
so the ID of some element. Let's try with this, X and Y is set to zero,
so that will scroll to top, now let's scroll down a bit by setting this to 700, 700 let's say,
the Y coordinate.
Now if I go to home,
well we don't really see it there because these pages aren't long enough
but if I click on a user and now edit user, you see we now scroll down and that's not because of this
hash tag data thing,
this just happened because we use the vuejs router and therefore it only works if we don't load the
page by entering the URL
but already are in the application,
we're still getting pushed down,
so this is because we set the scroll position to be this far down.
Now the alternative is to use a selector,
so if we have one.
So first I check if the route I want to navigate to,
if this has these hash property being set, so if this is not empty, so if it does exist, in which case I want
to return an object where I say selector and now I use this hash which is a string if it exists, this
string we set up here,
excuse me, here,
this string will that be. So
this will give me this place to navigate to but only if we do have it
otherwise I will still scroll down.
So if I save this now and head over to the application, click edit user,
we're still going down but this time due to this hash value being set, which I can easily demonstrate
by commenting out the other part, navigating back and reloading this, clicking edit user again, we're
still down there even though I commented out this other part.
So this is how we can use the or how we can set the scrolling behavior and how we can use our hash values
if we do have any.
Finally some step you might want to include is you want to check if save position is set because if
the user navigated back with the back button, it's probably not the desired behavior to scroll him all
the way down, up or whatever, you maybe just want to scroll him to the position he was at.
So you can simply return the save position
in this case and only if this is not set do we check if the hash is set and only if this is not set, then
we maybe scroll him up all the way to the top of the page.
And with that, we should have a fine navigation or a fine scroll behavior control in place.